>> Jason Lengstorf: My name
is Jason Lengstorf and
I work as human duct tape at Gatsby, that
means that I do a lot of different things.
Everything from dev roll to
writing content to writing code.
And I used to work as an architect at IBM.
I live in Portland, Oregon.
And so what we're going to learn today,
Is a bunch of stuff.
But the most exciting thing is we're gonna
learn what Gatsby is and why it matters
as a platform and as a tool, and
why it's useful to us as web developers.
We're also gonna dive into
the Gatsby fundamentals,
kinda the building blocks of what
makes a Gatsby site tick and
what makes it different from
just building a plain React app.
We'll dive into GraphQL,
the fundamentals of GraphQL.
We're only gonna use the pieces of
it that we need to build in Gatsby.
We're not gonna be doing a deep dive into
what GraphQL is or the language specifics.
We're also gonna get into MDX.
MDX is a way to write React
components in your markdown.
That is a really powerful way to
write content for developers and
so we're gonna look at how to use that.
We've also got programmatic page creation
which is where you've got data somewhere.
You're able to load that data and
build pages from it without having to
write actual files to house that data.
Then we're going to get into
performance optimization through image
optimization and various other strategies
that Gatsby either does automatically or
enables with relatively low effort.
And we're going to load third
party data into our Gatsby site.
We'll be loading Instagram data and
showing recent posts from an account
in an interesting component.
And once we get all that done we're gonna
build into play that site to nullify so
everything that you build today we'll be
live on the Internet by the end of this
workshop, which is a pretty
fun way to build Web sites.